blog: node: cpumanager goes GA (#37435)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-12-01-cpumanager-goes-GA.md

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Kubernetes 1.26: CPUManager goes GA'

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
title: 'Kubernetes v1.26: CPUManager goes GA'
```

Author: thanks, fixed (all instances of versions)

> date: 2022-12-01

Author: ack, setting a date in the far future and holding the PR as reminder.

> slug: cpumanager-goes-GA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
slug: cpumanager-ga
```

Author: thanks, fixed.

---

**Author:**
Francesco Romani (Red Hat)

The CPU Manager is a part of the kubelet, the Kubernetes node agent, which enables the user to allocate exclusive CPUs to containers.

> Since Kubernetes 1.10, where it [graduated to Beta](blog/2018/07/24/feature-highlight-cpu-manager/), the CPU Manager proved itself reliable and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Kubernetes v1.10, where it [graduated to Beta](blog/2018/07/24/feature-highlight-cpu-manager/), the CPU Manager proved itself reliable and
```

Author: ditto :)

fulfilled its role of allocating exclusive CPUs to containers, so adoption has steadily grown making it a staple component of performance-critical and
low-latency setups.  Over time, most changes were about bugfixes or internal refactoring, with the following noteworthy user-visible changes:

- [support explicit reservation of CPUs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/83592): it was already possible to request to reserve a given
  number of CPUs for system resources, including the kubelet itself, which will not be used for exclusive CPU allocation. Now it is possible to also
  explicitly select which CPUs to reserve instead of letting the kubelet pick them up automatically.
- [report the exclusively allocated CPUs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/97415) to containers, much like is already done for devices,
  using the kubelet-local [podresources API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources).
- [optimize the usage of system resources](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/101771), eliminating unnecessary sysfs changes.

> The CPU Manager reached the point on which it "just works", so in Kubernetes v1.26 it is graduating to GA.

Author: fixed, thanks.

> ### Stable does not mean inflexible: customization options for CPU Manager

Author: applied the first suggestion, thanks.

The CPU Manager supports two operation modes, configured using its _policies_. With the `none` policy, the CPU Manager allocates CPUs to containers
without any specific constraint except the quota set in the Pod Spec, if present. With the `static` policy, when the pod is in the Guaranteed QoS Class and

> finally when the amount of CPU requested by containers is integral the CPU Manager allocates CPUs exclusively.

Reviewer 2: without any specific constraint except the (optional) quota set in the Pod spec.
With the `static` policy, then provided that the pod is in the `Guaranteed` QoS class **and**
every container in that Pod requests an integer amount of vCPU cores, then
the CPU Manager allocates CPUs exclusively. Exclusive assignment means that
other containers (whether from the same Pod, or from a different Pod) do not
get scheduled onto that CPU.
```

Author: thanks, rephrased as you suggested.

This simple operational model served the user base pretty well, but as the CPU Manager matured more and more, users started to look at more elaborate use
cases and how to better support them.

Rather than add more policies, the community realized that pretty much all the novel use cases are some variation of the behavior enabled by the `static`
CPU Manager policy. Hence, it was decided to add [options to tune the behavior of the static policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/2625-cpumanager-policies-thread-placement#proposed-change).
The options have a varying degree of maturity, like any other Kubernetes feature, and in order to be accepted, each new option provides a backward
compatible behavior when disabled, and to document how to interact with each other, should they interact at all.

> This enabled the kubernetes project to graduate to GA the CPU Manager core component and core CPU allocation algorithms to GA,

Author: fixed, thanks.

while also enabling a new age of experimentation in this area.

> In kubernetes v1.26, the CPU Manager [supports three different policy options](docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies.md#static-policy-options):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.26, the CPU Manager supports three different [policy options](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/#static-policy-options):
```

Author: fixed, thanks

> - `full-pcpus-only` restrict the CPU Manager core allocation algorithm to full physical cores only, reducing the noisy neighbors issues.
> - `distribute-cpus-across-numa` drive the CPU Manager to evenly distribute CPUs across NUMA nodes in cases where more than one NUMA node is required to satisfy the allocation.
> - `align-by-socket` make the CPU Manager consider CPUs aligned at the socket boundary, instead of NUMA Node boundary, when deciding how to allocate CPUs to a container.

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
`full-pcpus-only`
: restrict the CPU Manager core allocation algorithm to full physical cores only, reducing noisy neighbor issues from hardware technologies that allow sharing cores.

`distribute-cpus-across-numa`
: drive the CPU Manager to evenly distribute CPUs across NUMA nodes, for cases where more than one NUMA node is required to satisfy the allocation.

`align-by-socket`
: change how the CPU Manager allocates CPUs to a container:  consider CPUs to be aligned at the socket boundary, instead of NUMA node boundary.
```

Author: seems nicer, using your suggestion

> ### What’s next?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Further development
```
The docs use the phrase “What's next" to highlight further reading.

Author: got it, thanks. In this case, "Further development" is more fit.

> After graduating the main CPU Manager feature, each existing policy option will graduate to GA. There is room for new options to be added,

Reviewer 2: Are we making a commitment as the Kubernetes project that these existings options will definitely, unavoidably *all* graduate? If not, we should temper the language.

Author: Good point, rephrased.

but there's also a growing demand for even more flexibility than what the CPU Manager, and its policy options, currently grant.

> Conversations are in progress in the community about splitting the CPU Manager and the other resource managers currently compiled in in the kubelet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conversations are in progress in the community about splitting the CPU Manager and the other resource managers currently compiled in the kubelet
```

Author: thanks, this is probably better addressed with a small rephrasing. I'll fix in the next upload.

in pluggable, independent kubelet plugins. If you are interested in this effort, please join the conversation on sig-node channels (slack, mailing list, weekly meeting)
to learn about the [direction the community is pursuing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uIHF_t97WZzIJgvyD75PYu46PRPi62i2/edit#slide=id.p1).

> ### How can I learn more?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```

Author: thanks, done

Please check out the

> [documentation](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/) for the
> `CPU Manager to learn more about it and how it fits in relation to the other kubelet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Control CPU Management Policies on the Node](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)
task page to learn more about the CPU Manager, and how it fits in relation to the other node-level
```

Author: thanks, applied your suggestion.

resource managers.

> ### How to get involved?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting involved
```

Author: fixed, thanks

> This feature is driven by the SIG Node community. Please join us to connect with

Reviewer 2: Optionally, link to https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-node/README.md

Author: good idea, done!

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.26: CPUManager goes GA'
date: 2022-12-01
slug: cpumanager-goes-GA
---

**Author:**
Francesco Romani (Red Hat)

> The CPU Manager is a part of the kubelet, the Kubrnetes node agent, which enables the user to allocate exclusive CPUs to containers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CPU Manager is a part of the kubelet, the Kubernetes node agent, which enables the user to allocate exclusive CPUs to containers.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed

> Since its [Beta graduation in 2018](blog/2018/07/24/feature-highlight-cpu-manager/), the CPU Manager adoption steadily grown and become a staple

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since its [Beta graduation in 2018](blog/2018/07/24/feature-highlight-cpu-manager/), the CPU Manager adoption has steadily grown making it a staple component
```

of performance-critical and low-latency setups.

> Since Kubernetes 1.10, the CPU Manager proved itself reliable and fulfilling its role. Over time, changes were about bugfixes or internal refactoring

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since Kubernetes 1.10, the CPU Manager proved itself reliable and fulfilled its role of allocating exclusive CPUs to containers. Over time, changes were about bugfixes or internal refactoring
```

Author: thanks, rephrased taking into account your suggestion.

- [optimize the usage of system resources](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/101771), eliminating unnecessary sysfs changes.

The CPU Manager reached the point on which it "just works", so in Kubernetes 1.26 it is graduating to GA.

### Stable does not mean inflexible: customization options for CPU Manager

The CPU Manager supports two operation modes, configured using its _policies_. With the `none` policy, the CPU Manager allocates CPUs to containers
without any specific constraint except the quota set in the Pod Spec, if present. With the `static` policy, when the pod is in the Guaranteed QoS Class and
finally when the amount of CPU requested by containers is integral the CPU Manager allocates CPUs exclusively.

This simple operational model served the user base pretty well, but as the CPU Manager matured more and more, users started to look at more elaborate use
cases and how to better support them.

Rather than add more policies, the community realized that pretty much all the novel use cases are some variation of the behavior enabled by the `static`

> CPU Manager policy. Hence, it was decided add [options to tune the behavior of the static policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/2625-cpumanager-policies-thread-placement#proposed-change).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CPU Manager policy. Hence, it was decided to add [options to tune the behavior of the static policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/2625-cpumanager-policies-thread-placement#proposed-change).
```

Author: thanks, fixed
